CREATING A NEW GALAXY FLAVOR

From scratch

On MacOS

Install the following:
1. Docker (https://download.docker.com/mac/stable/Docker.dmg). Verify if it is running by opening the command line and typing docker ps or docker version
2. Install Kitemagic ()

Instantiating a Galaxy Docker image
1. Open Kitemagic and click +New; 
2. Search for "galaxy-stable" and hit create.
3. Click on galaxy-stable on the left pane, then click on web preview, this will open your default web browser and load galaxy running from the galaxy-stable docker image. 

Installing additional tools and activating "Generate Tool List" webhook
1. To install additional tools, log-in to galaxy using "admin@galaxy.org" as the email and "admin" as the password.
2. You will need to activate the "Generate Tool List" webhook to create a list of tools that you added to Galaxy. To activate the webhook go to Kitemagic, click galaxy-stable and then click "exec". This will open an instance of the terminal logged-in to your galaxy docker instance.
3. Edit the galaxy.ini at /etc/galaxy/. Uncomment the line containing "webhooks_dir = config/plugins/webhooks", append demo at the end. The line will now be: webhooks_dir = config/plugins/webhooks/demo
4. Verify if the demo webhook is activated by opening /galaxy-central/config/plugins/webhooks/demo/search/config/searchover.yaml and checking if the following line is present: activate: true
5. Restart galaxy by typing "supervisorctl restart galaxy:"
6. Verify if "Generate Tool List" webhook is activated by refreshing the galaxy page on the browser, two new icons will appear on the right side: magnifying lens and list icon.
7. Click on the list icon (make sure that pop ups is enabled on your browser). This will open a new tab with the following heading "Create a Docker flavour of this instance:"

Preparing docker build files.
1. Create three files:
Dockerfile
README.md
demoflavor.yaml
You can copy the contents of the first two files from https://github.com/bgruening/docker-recipes/tree/master/galaxy-openms. Modify specific lines to suit your tools and description. But maintaining the "FROM bgruening/galaxy-stable" line. The demoflavor.yaml should contain the lines generated by the "Generate Tool List" webhook.
2. Upload this to your github repository.
3. Log in to your docker hub account. Click on the Create link in the upperright hand corner, then click "Create automated build".
4. Choose "Github" and enter your github credentials. Then click authorize.
5. Click on the repository you just created then click "build details." If the build did not start yet, click "Trigger". This will create a new galaxy docker image with the tools you installed.
6. Using Kitemagic create a new galaxy instance using the docker image you just created.





